When data is in a database,
a fair amount of effort and expertise might still be
required to uncover insights. This goal can be achieved by using
a business intelligence solution. However, the challenge that organizations
often face is identifying the right business intelligence solution. Some solutions are too complex and not accessible by those outside the data
engineering or data analysis teams. The this means other teams have
to put in requests and wait for answers which defeats the purpose
of gaining real-time insights. Other solutions let everyone in the
business perform their own data analysis, but they can only perform their analysis
with a selection of the available data. This means that only a few people or
possibly no one, has a full view of
the organization's business data. Looker is a Google Cloud business
intelligence platform designed to help individuals and teams analyze,
visualize and share data. This includes creating
interactive dashboards and reports that are easy to understand and
share. By having a reliable authority for
business data, anyone on a team can explore it, ask and answer their own
questions, and create visualizations. This approach empowers organizations
to not just uncover insights, but also act on them. Looker supports BigQuery, along with
more than 60 different SQL databases. Together, BigQuery and Looker provide
rich interactive dashboards and reports without compromising performance,
scale, security or data freshness. Looker is also 100% web based, which
makes it easy to integrate into existing workflows and share with multiple
teams at an organization. So how can Looker be used? Let's explore an example. Diamond Resorts, a global leader in
hospitality offers destinations, events and experiences to help
people recharge, connect and enjoy. They had previously used a mixture
of complex Excel workbooks and legacy BI tools to track
important metrics. Each business unit operated and
ran their own silo data initiatives. As a result, there were no common view
of business or single authority for common metrics,
redundant data engineering efforts. Because work was never shared or
used across the organization, and inconsistent project prioritization
because decisions were driven primarily on intuition as
opposed to actual data. Also, infrastructure did not meet business
requirements with executive reporting efforts that took months to complete. Data that was duplicative across multiple
business units without proper governance, multiple reporting tools and
data warehouses throughout the business. And infrastructure that didn't support
advanced analytics aspirations. Diamond Resorts wanted to create a single
common Cloud-based architecture that was fully managed. Establishing data governance and enabling
the business to be more data-driven while they set the foundation for
advanced analytics efforts. They migrated to the Cloud and began using
Looker to help improve business agility. This decision let them gain access to
real-time insights in less than three months. It helped them to navigate COVID changes
with important operational metrics such as daily booking and cancellations, while it
also provided a 360 degree customer view. And in addition to this manual,
reporting for the yield management team was
decreased by hours each day. The Chief Information Officer said
projects that we anticipated coming in future years were suddenly ready
to be tackled within weeks. This is just one example of how an
effective business intelligence solution can let businesses transform to
better serve their customers.