In the last decade, the amount of data produced
has increased exponentially, and the Cloud has made
it easier to collect, store, and analyze
it at a lower cost. Organizations are
now challenged to democratize and embed
data in every decision, while they also ensure that it's secure and protected
from unauthorized use. An effective data
governance program can help implement data
directives to achieve this. But what exactly is
data governance? Data governance means
setting internal standards, data policies that apply
to how data is gathered, stored, processed,
and disposed of. It governs who can
access certain data, what data is under governance. It also involves complying with external standards set by
industry associations, government agencies,
and other stakeholders. Data governance
focuses on making the data available to
all stakeholders across the full life cycle of the data in a form that they
can readily access and use, in a manner that generates the desired business outcomes through insights and analysis, and if relevant, in a way that conforms to regulatory
standards and compliance needs. Data governance brings
several benefits. It makes data more valuable. Data Governance
implements processes to ensure high quality
data and provides a platform that makes
it easier to share data securely with stakeholders
across the organization. It helps users make better, more timely decisions,
through data governance. Users throughout an
organization get the data they need to reach
and service customers, design and improve products and services and seize
opportunities for new revenues. By democratizing data, organizations can embed data
in all decision making. It improves cost controls. Data helps organizations manage resources and operate
more efficiently. Because they can eliminate
data duplication caused by information silos, they don't overbuy and have to maintain expensive hardware. It enhances regulatory
compliance. An increasingly
complex regulatory climate has made it more important for organizations to establish rigorous data
governance practices. They avoid risks associated with noncompliance and proactively
anticipate new regulations. It helps earn greater trust
from customers and suppliers. By being in auditable
compliance with both internal and
external data policies, organizations gain the trust
of customers and partners. It helps manage risk. With robust data governance, organizations can reduce
concerns about exposure of sensitive data to individuals or systems who lack
proper authorization. Security breaches from
malicious, outsiders, or even insiders who access data they don't have
the right to see. It allows more personnel
access to more data. Strong data governance provides confidence that the right
personnel get access to the right data and that this democratization
of data does not negatively impact
the organization. It's possible that
organizations without an effective data
governance program will suffer from
compliance violations. This can lead to finds poor data quality
which generates lower quality insights that
impact business decisions. Challenges in finding
data which results in delayed analysis and missed
business opportunities, and poorly trained
data models for AI, which reduces the model accuracy and benefits of using AI. Every organization
needs data governance. As businesses throughout
all industries progress on their digital
transformation journeys, data has quickly become the most valuable
asset they possess.