When you think about
data processing, it's important to
place it within the broader context of
the data value chain. Imagine data traveling
along an assembly line, like a car in a factory. The assembly line
progressively adds parts and value to an
object that moves along it. Raw data at the beginning
of the line is eventually transformed into actions that
humans or machines take. Let's examine the steps
in this data value chain. Data genesis is the initial
creation of a unit of data. This could be a click on a
website, the swipe of a card, a sensor recording
from an IoT device, or countless other examples. It's the raw material
that will eventually be turned into an insight
ready for action. Data collection brings
that initial unit of data to the assembly
line through ingestion. The basic function of ingestion
is to extract data from the system in which it's hosted and bring it
to a new system. It could have dramatically
different requirements based on the volume, velocity, and variety of the raw
data that's required for a given analysis and how fast the data needs
to be analyzed. Data processing is where the collected raw
data is transformed into a form that's ready
to derive insights from. The data will likely need
to be adjusted for example, by merging different
datasets together. It can be a single-stage
operation or can be a complex tree of
cascading procedures. In our manufacturing
process analogy, this phase is where raw
materials take the shape of the pre-assembly parts
of a manufactured product. Data storage is where
the data lands can be found and is ready
for analysis and action. As with real-world
manufacturing, where storage options vary depending on the type of
product that is processed, different types of data can
be stored in different ways. For example, NoSQL is available for fast
reads and writes, data warehousing for
fast access to analysis, and object storage for
unstructured data. There are also
customized options of these standard stores. Data analysis provides direction for
business-oriented action. To continue with
our manufacturing line analogy in this stage, inputs from the data
processing stage are assembled into
a final product. Finally, the last step in the data value chain
is data activation. When an analysis is produced, it needs to be pushed to the relevant business procedures and decision-makers so
that action can be taken and the value
chain completed. The most common points
of activation are applications that make
automated decisions, and business intelligence
dashboards that guide humans toward better,
more informed decisions. In our manufacturing
line example, this is the step where a
fully produced product is put to its intended use. There's no one way to
assemble a data value chain, as there's no one way to create a real-world manufacturing line. Similarly, as
technologies progress, new inputs become available, your workforce evolves, or
the desired output changes. The optimal value chain
will also change. However, at its core, the value chain principles hold. We want to use raw data to perform actions that
benefit the business.